---
layout: single
title: Frequently Asked Questions
date: 2014-08-19 14:36:22.000000000 -04:00
type: page
parent_id: '0'
published: true
password: ''
status: publish
categories: []
tags: []
toc: true
toc_label: "FAQ"
toc_icon: "question"
---
## Program Questions

#### What is the Ross Mathematics Program?

This Program is a six-week residential session for high school
students who are talented in mathematics, well prepared in standard
high school math topics, and eager to explore more advanced
ideas. Participants spend most of each day working on challenging sets
of problems dealing with abstract mathematical concepts. By working
for several weeks on one subject (number theory), participants delve
deeply into the underpinnings of that subject. But more importantly,
they learn to communicate mathematical ideas clearly and to write
convincing proofs of all of their assertions. One goal of this program
is to provide a first step toward independent mathematical
research. It is not oriented toward math contests and direct
competition between students is avoided.

#### Is admission automatic?

The admission process is competitive. Typically, fewer than one-third
of the applicants are accepted. Each successful applicant has a strong
high school record and exhibits excellent work on the mathematical
problems that form part of the application.

#### Are scholarships available?

The Ross Program is able to provide some scholarship support to
qualified students who cannot otherwise afford to attend. Requests for
support should be made after a student has been accepted to the
Program.  Various academic institutions in the applicant's home city
or state might also have available scholarships. In addition, the
national high school mathematical society, Mu Alpha Theta
([www.mualphatheta.org/variousfile-ish/Grants.pdf](http://www.mualphatheta.org/variousfile-ish/Grants.pdf)),
has some scholarship support for participation in math programs. Other
scholarship opportunities include the Davidson Institute
([www.davidsongifted.org](http://www.davidsongifted.org)) and the Jack
Kent Cooke Foundation ([www.jkcf.org](http://www.jkcf.org)).

## Living Arrangements


#### Where do the students live?

Students live in one of the dormitories on the campus of the Ohio State University in Columbus. Students typically share a room with one roommate. We try to arrange for roommates to have about the same level of mathematical experience. These assignments usually match the ages of the students, but not always.

#### What is the mailing address?

The mailing address for Ross Program participants is:

> (participant's name)  
> Ross Math Program  
> OSU Math Department  
> 231 W. 18th Ave  
> Columbus, OH 43210-1174

This Math Department address is more reliable than the dormitory address.

#### How are the dorm rooms furnished?

The building is air-conditioned. Each participant has a single bed,
desk and chair, and some closet space, and is provided two sheets,
pillow and pillowcase, blanket, towel, and washcloth. Students provide
their own clothes hangers, shampoo, soap and other personal items such
as an alarm clock.

#### Is there a curfew?

All students must remain inside the dormitory after dark and should
not leave the campus at any time unless absolutely necessary and in
the company of a counselor.

#### Are the students segregated from traditional Ohio State students?

The Ross Mathematics Program usually almost fills up one or two floors
of the dormitory. But college students live nearby and some of them
attend summer classes. Various other academic and athletic camps for a
wide range of ages are held on campus. Their participants arrive and
leave throughout the summer and some of them will occupy the same
building.

#### What are the security arrangements in the dorm?

The dormitory is locked, accessible only by key card, and each bedroom
has its own lock and key. In spite of these arrangements there is
always some potential for theft or other crime, so we advise students
not to avoid bringing valuable items or large amounts of cash.

#### Are there life counselors (as opposed to math counselors)? Someone to check that students are eating right, doing laundry, cleaning their room, etc.?**

Ross counselors and students live in the same dormitory. Counselors
provide supervision, but we expect students to be mature enough to
choose what and when they eat, do their own laundry, keep themselves
and their rooms clean, and get enough sleep. If someone is not mature
enough to do these things, or distracts other students from their
mathematical work, we arrange for that student to leave the program
and return home.

#### What do they eat? Where do they eat? How often do they eat? Are there any accommodations for my child's special dietary needs, such as diabetes, peanut allergy, gluten intolerance, vegetarianism, etc.?

Each participant receives a meal card to purchase food. Close to the
dorm there is a traditional, cafeteria-style dining hall, offering two
entrees per meal with assorted side dishes, beverages, and a full
salad bar. Several other places on campus also accept meal cards, such
as the restaurants in the _Ohio Union_. Menus are posted on the
[Dining Services](http://diningservices.osu.edu/) web site.

## Packing List

#### What do students need to bring?

Sheets, blanket, pillow, pillowcase, towel, and washcloth are
provided. Students need to bring their own shampoo, soap, etc. They
also need to bring clothes appropriate for a Columbus summer,
including a jacket and rain gear. A certain amount of cash is needed
for laundry, snacks, and souvenirs.

#### How do most students handle money - cash, credit cards, ATMs?

Students may use ATMs to withdraw cash from home accounts. If there is
a problem, one of the staff members can take the student to a bank to
help him or her cash a personal check, traveler's check, or money
order.

#### What expenses are not covered in the program fees? Do you have a suggested/recommended additional spending allowance?

Washers and dryers in the dorm require cash (approximately $2.50 per
load) and you need your own detergent. There is not much more that
students are required to buy. Some students purchase extra food,
souvenirs, books, etc.

#### Is there shopping within easy access?

There are stores nearby, but students are asked not to leave the
campus unless accompanied by a counselor. If special items are needed
from the grocery or elsewhere, a counselor accompanies the student to
the store. There is a CVS pharmacy and a University Bookstore on
campus.

#### Are laptop computers encouraged? What about other electronic devices?

All the mathematical ideas presented in the Ross Program are
investigated with pencil and paper. Students are **NOT** allowed to
bring computers, electronic tablets, TV sets, video game systems, DVD
players, etc. We ask students to refrain from using smart phones, and
to avoid borrowing computers for searching websites, surfing,
computing, or playing games. Some computers are available in the dorm
for checking email.

## Transportation

#### What is the transportation around campus? To/from lectures and the dorm?

All travel on campus is by walking.

#### Where are the math lectures and seminars held?

The lectures and seminars are usually held in campus building within a
few blocks of the dormitory.

#### Is there transportation to/from the airport if an attendee flies in or out unaccompanied?

We meet students at the Columbus airport (CMH) and they are driven
back to the dorm in a multi-passenger bus. At the end of the summer,
we provide transportation back to the airport.

#### Do some students bring cars? Are there restrictions on students riding with other students?

First-year students are not allowed to bring cars.

#### Do students bring/use bicycles?

First-year students are not allowed to bring bicycles or skateboards.

## Health Concerns

#### Is a physical required?

No. But we need to know of any existing medical conditions, so a health history is required.

#### Do we need health insurance?

Yes.  Each student must have medical insurance with coverage in
Columbus, Ohio. Proof of insurance is required. If you do not have
adequate coverage, we can suggest places to purchase short-term health
insurance.

#### Is there a nurse on duty/doctors on call?

For any medical concerns, [Wilce Student Health
Center](http://www.shc.osu.edu/) and [The Ohio State University
Medical Center](http://medicalcenter.osu.edu/Pages/index.aspx) are on
campus. If a student is sick or injured, a counselor or staff member
will transport and accompany them to the hospital or clinic.

#### Is there a campus clinic that they can attend for minor problems?

Yes, the [Wilce Student Health Center](http://www.shc.osu.edu/) clinic
is on the central campus, about six blocks from the dorm.

#### Is there a pharmacy on campus?

There is a CVS pharmacy on campus, within walking distance of the
dorm.

## Recreation


#### Are there events planned for nights and weekends? Is social interaction encouraged?

Counselors organize some informal activities like Ultimate Frisbee
games each Friday, and a Talent Show. However, students are expected
to spend most of their waking hours working on the mathematical
problem sets. Weekends are spent mostly catching up on problem sets
that weren't completed during the week. When they are not
concentrating on math, students are welcome to use the University
libraries and other open campus spaces.

#### Do you conduct field trips to other locations?

Yes.  There is an off-campus fireworks trip on Independence Day and
the Annual Ross Picnic.

#### Are parents allowed/ encouraged to make mid-session visits to campus?

We strongly discourage overnight absences for Ross students. Students
build up momentum working full-time on hard problems. That momentum is
halted when a student takes a day or two off. Parents are certainly
welcome to visit for a day and take students out to dinner. But movies
or similar events tend to distract students from mathematical
motivations and interests. They can watch movies and TV at home, after
the Ross Program is over. This policy might seem stringent: The point
is to get students excited about mathematical ideas and to concentrate
all of their energy on solving interesting math problems.

## International Concerns


#### Do you accept international students?

Every year, many students from outside the U.S. are accepted to the
Ross Program. They are highly talented, eager to learn abstract
mathematical ideas, and fluent in English. Some financial aid is
available for excellent students, but we can rarely provide support
for travel expenses.

#### What sort of visa is needed?

Students at the Ross Mathematics Program are not registered as college
students, and do not receive official credit from the University. This
Program is a 'mathematical vacation' so you may use a tourist visa
(B-2).

## Just Curious

#### How many students are admitted to the Program?

We admit approximately 64 first-year students, supported by about a
dozen junior counselors and about 16 counselors.

#### What is the ratio of boys to girls?

In past years, about one-fourth of the participants have been female.

#### What is the average age? What is the age spread? Is my child too young/old?

Nearly all first-year students are 15 to 18 years old, and the average
age is usually 16 or 17. We occasionally admit some exceptionally
mature 14 year olds, as well as some students who have already
graduated from high school.

#### Where do the students come from?

Ross participants come from all over the United States, and every year
we have students from China, South Korea, and India. We've also had
students from other countries, including Canada, Chile, France,
Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Israel, Italy, Kyrgyzstan, Mexico, Russia,
Serbia, Singapore, Spain, Taiwan, and Turkey.

#### How does the Ross Program compare to other summer math programs like PROMYS, Canada/USA Mathcamp, HCSSiM, SUMaC, etc?

Prominent summer math programs for high school students are listed on
the
[mathcamps](http://www.ams.org/programs/students/high-school/emp-mathcamps)
page run by the American Mathematical Society.  A key feature of the
Ross Program is that the students concentrate deeply on just one
subject for the entire session. We are convinced that this level of
focus and depth is far more valuable than short overviews of many
different topics.

PROMYS at Boston University is the other program most similar to the
Ross Program.
