---
layout: single
title: To Apply
type: page
parent_id: '0'
published: true
password: ''
status: publish
categories: []
tags: []
meta:
  _edit_last: '4951'
---

# Application Instructions

Students can initiate the application process by visiting <a
href="https://apply.rossprogram.org/">https://apply.rossprogram.org/</a>
and then completing the forms available there.  Applicants who have
any technical troubles or other questions about the application
process should email <a
href="mailto:ross@rossprogram.org">ross@rossprogram.org</a>.

A key component of the application process involves submitting
solutions to the <a href="/students/application-problems.pdf">Application
Problems</a>.

## Application Deadline

Starting March 1, the Ross Admission Committee will begin accepting
students until all spaces have been filled.    The final deadline for
Ross applications is <b>April 1</b>. However, spaces might be filled
early, so it is best to complete your application well before the end
of March for adequate consideration.
  
## Applying to Ross/Asia

Although Ross/Asia is run by _Renascentia Hall International_,
applications for Ross/USA and Ross/Asia are handled together: the same
application on <a
href="https://apply.rossprogram.org/">https://apply.rossprogram.org/</a>
may be used for either or both programs.

#### Home-Stay Opportunity

We offer an optional cultural exchange program prior to the start of
Ross/Asia.   Participants from outside China live with host families
in China for a week, to learn more about modern Chinese culture. (This
involves no additional cost to the student.)  All arrangements are
handled directly by the company 

## Financial Information

The fee to attend the 2019 Ross Program in Ohio is $5000, while the
fee for [Ross/Asia](http://www.rossmathasia.org/index_english.jsp) is
35,000 RMB.  Those fees cover room, board, and all instructional
expenses.

## Scholarships

The Ross Program endeavors to provide enough financial support to
enable every accepted student to attend. If you have been accepted to
the Ross Program and need financial assistance in order to join us,
please ask your parent or guardian to contact us at
[ross@rossprogram.org](mailto: ross@rossprogram.org). We will reply
with details on how to apply for scholarship support.

## Commitment to Nondiscrimination

The Ross Program does not discriminate on the basis of gender, gender
identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, race, creed, color,
ethnic origin, disability, or marital status in its admissions,
educational programming, financial aid, employment practices, or other
activities.

<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
